[MUSIC]
>> Ben Callahan: So that's tables.
And again, with just 100 lines of CSS,
we were able to go from sort
of an unusable experience at small screens
to something that's very functional.
You require some experimentation.
So let's talk a little bit
about how you might apply
styles in a retrofitting scenario.
We covered large resolution first in
the 101 session but just as a recap,
your original styles go here and
then you could apply max with queries
that sort of undo a lot of the layout
that you've done at smaller resolutions.
If you're retrofitting,
this probably makes a lot of sense, right?
Because this already exists.
They've got a site.
HTML, CSS, it's all working and
this already exists.
And if you could add a single CSS file.
Behind a query, a media query that
just had this kind of stuff in it,
that'd be great.
But what we found is occasionally we come
across a site where they're asking for
a retrofit but there is so much junk going
on in their CSS that it's gonna take more
work for us to undo all that stuff than
it is to just start over with CSS.
But I don't wanna have to recreate
their top resolution layout, right.
So what I really want is what I'm kind
of calling small resolution first kept.
Okay.
I wanna keep their original style
sheet and I want that to work
at maybe 900 pixels and greater.
And then I wanna start with no styles,
mobile first up to that point.
The trick is, I can't apply those styles
at the same time as their styles are being
applied because if I were to do that, it's
gonna break their original layout, right?
So this is what we're trying to do,
don't change the original styles.
Serve mobile first, CSS for
small view ports and
then just serve their original styles
untouched at larger view port.
So I'm gonna show you guys quickly a way
hat we're actually that we've actually
successfully implemented this.
So again looking at the sort of
the head of a document here.
I'm using modernizer here and
this moderniser.mq test will test
a media query for you, okay?
So, all I'm saying with this test is,
hey is min-width; 0px true?
Which is always true, if the browser
understands media queries, right.
So I can run this test to see if this
browser actually supports media queries or
not, that's what all that's doing.
And then this is yep, no.
So if this is true, I'm gonna load base.
Otherwise I'm just gonna give
them the original styles.
So if they're in a browser that
doesn't support media queries,
all my fun stuff that's retrofitting
ain't gonna work anyway.
This is given the original styles,
they get what they've always got, right.
And then a noscript fallback
to give them the original.
So if JavaScript is disabled,
in this case they're gonna get
the original styles as well.
Now let's take a look at that base CSS.
Again this is a SAS aggregate, okay?
So that base CSS is generated
by this aggregate file, okay?
Same kind of technique
we were using before
to build up a single file that
has media queries in them.
These are not requests, these imports,
these are SAS imports, okay.
But what we're doing is we're applying
I've got basically three different tiers
of styles that I wanna apply here.
A small set of styles.
A medium set and the original styles.
So you could break these
down however you needed for
your specific project,
just kind of proving their concept here.
So if the browser viewport
is 979 pixels or lower,
okay, maximum is 979,
I wanna import small.
If it's between 661 and 979,
I'm also gonna import medium, right.
So this is true.
In cases where this is true,
this is also true.
So you would import this regardless.
And this is gonna get added on,
if I'm between these two.
So now if I've included medium,
I've also included small.
And then here, a mind-width 980 and
higher, I just serve them the original.
Okay, so
what this does is it's that capping, okay.
Neither of these two styles
are applied over 979.
And only this is applied over 979.
It's a little bit crazy.
There's a working demo though in
the folder that shows kind of how this
actually works pretty well.
Again this kind of stuff is like,
there's no need to figure this out unless
you get that crazy request from a client.
But just know that there's all kinds of
creative ways that you can link styles.
Using this sort of book and
approach of media queries can
really get you some cool results.
Questions on how this is working or, no.
>> Ben Callahan: Okay.